


13. Which of the following symptoms is associated with B12 deficiency anemia?
A) Spoon-shaped nails and pica
B) An abnormal neurological exam
C) A vegan diet
D) Tingling and numbness of both feet
 Answer D Tingling and numbness of both feet Vitamin B12 deficiency anemia can cause nerve cell damage if not treated. Symptoms of B12 deficiency anemia may include tingling or numbness in fingers and toes, difficulty walking, mood changes or depression, memory loss, disorientation, and dementia.
14. A second triple screen on a 35-year-old primigravida reveals abnormally low levels of the alpha fetoprotein and estriol and high levels of human chorionic gonadotropin. Which of the following interventions is the best choice for this patient?
A) Order an ultrasound
B) Order a computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen
C) Order a 24-hour urine for protein clearance
D) Assess for a history of illicit drug or alcohol use
Answer A Order an ultrasound Abnormally low levels of alpha fetoprotein and estriol and high levels of human chorionic gonadotropin are abnormal during pregnancy. An ultrasound should be ordered to further evaluate the fetus for characteristics of Down syndrome and/or fetal demise.
15. All of the following are true statements about diverticula except:
A) Diverticula are located in the colon
B) A low-fiber diet is associated with the condition
C) Most diverticula in the colon are infected with gram-negative bacteria
D) Supplementing with fiber such as psyllium (Metamucil) is recommended
Answer C Most diverticula in the colon are infected with gram-negative bacteria Diverticula in the colon can be infected with both gram-negative and gram positive bacteria.




16. Patients who are diagnosed with gonorrhea should also be treated for which of the following infections?
A) Chancroid
B) Chlamydia trachomatis
C) Herpes genitals
D) PID (pelvic inflammatory disease)
Answer B Chlamydia Trachomatis When diagnosed with gonorrhea, the patient should
also be treated for Chlamydia trachomatis.
17. Kyphosis is a late sign of:
A) Old age
B) Osteopenia
C) Osteoporosis
D) Osteoarthritis
Answer C Osteoporosis Kyphosis is a curvature of the spine that causes a rounding of the back, which leads to a slouching posture. Severe thinning of the bones (osteoporosis) contributes to this curvature in the spine. Symptoms that may occur with severe cases of kyphosis include difficulty breathing, fatigue, and back pain.
18. A 35-year-old primigravida who is at 28 weeks of gestation is expecting twins. What would you expect her alpha fetoprotein (AFP) values to be?
A) Normal
B) Higher than normal
C) Lower than normal
D) None of the above
Answer B Higher than normal Alpha fetoprotein is produced in the fetal and maternal liver. Higher levels of alpha fetoprotein are commonly seen in multiple gestations due to the growing fetuses and enlargement of the livers.




19. Which of the following antihypertensive medications has beneficial effects for an elderly White female with osteoporosis?
A) Calcium channel blocker
B) Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor
C) Beta-blocker
D) Diuretic
Answer A Calcium channel blocker Calcium channel blockers act by blocking the calcium channels in the heart muscle and the blood vessels, thereby keeping more calcium in the bones.
20. The Lachman maneuver is used to detect which of the following?
A) Knee instability
B) Nerve damage of the knee due to past knee injuries
C) The integrity of the patellar tendon
D) Tears on the meniscus of the knee
 Answer A Knee instability The Lachman maneuver is a test performed to assess for knee instability. Knee instability indicates a tear of the anterior cruciate ligament.
21. When an adolescent male’s penis grows more in length than width, at which of the
following Tanner stages is he classified?
A) Tanner Stage II
B) Tanner Stage III
C) Tanner Stage IV
D) Tanner Stage V
 Answer B:  Tanner Stage III.  Tanner Stage III in males consists of penis lengthening and darker, coarse pubic hair, which begins to curl.





 22. Fetal TORCH infections can cause microcephaly, mental retardation, hepatosplenomegaly, and intrauterine growth retardation. The acronym TORCH stands for:
A) Toxoplasma gondii, other infections, rubella, cytomegalovirus, and herpes
B) Toxic shock syndrome, ocular infections, rubella, cytomegalovirus, and herpes zoster
C) Tetanus, ophthalmic infections, roseola, cancer, and head abnormalities
D) Toxins, other infections, roseola, candidiasis, and head abnormalities
Answer A: Toxoplasma gondii, other infections, rubella, cytomegalovirus, and herpes . The acronym TORCH stands for Toxoplasma gondii, other infections, rubella, cytomegalovirus, and herpes. Although several of the conditions listed in the other answer options can also cause fetal problems, they are not included in the TORCH acronym.
23. Human papilloma virus (HPV) infection of the larynx has been associated with:
A) Laryngeal neoplasia
B) Esophageal stricture
C) Cervical cancer
D) Metaplasia of esophageal squamous cells
Answer A:  Laryngeal neoplasia HPV infection of the larynx has been associated with laryngeal neoplasia; HPV infection of the cervix is associated with cervical cancer.
24. Mr. Brown is a 65-year-old carpenter complaining of morning stiffness and pain in both his hands and right knee upon awakening. He feels some relief after warming up. On exam, the nurse notices the presence of Heberden’s nodes. Which of the following is most likely?
A) Osteoporosis
B) Rheumatoid arthritis
C) Degenerative joint disease
D) Reiter’s syndrome
Answer C:  Degenerative joint disease Heberden’s nodes are commonly seen in degenerative joint disease. Heberden’s nodes are bony nodules located on the distal interphalangeal joints (DIPs).



25. What does a positive posterior drawer sign in a 10-year-old soccer player signify?
A) An abnormal knee
B) Instability of the knee
C) A large amount of swelling on the knee
D) An injury of the meniscus
 Answer B:  Instability of the knee The drawer sign is performed on the knee or ankle to assess for knee instability. The affected knee will have more laxity when compared to the unaffected knee.
26. A multigravida who is at 28 weeks of gestation has a fundal height of 29 cm. Which of the following is the best recommendation for this patient?
A) Advise the mother that her pregnancy is progressing well
B) Order an ultrasound of the uterus
C) Refer her to an obstetrician for an amniocentesis
D) Recommend bed rest with bathroom privileges
Answer A:  Advise the mother that her pregnancy is progressing well From 20–35 weeks’ gestation, fundal height should equal weeks gestation. If greater than 2 cm within the gestational week of pregnancy, further testing should be performed to evaluate fetal growth.
27. A multigravida who is at 34 weeks of gestation wants to know at what level her uterine fundus should be. The best answer is to advise the mother that her fundus is:
A) Midway between the umbilicus and the lower ribs
B) At the level of the umbilicus
C) From 33 to 35 cm
D) From 32 to 34 cm
Answer C:  From 33 to 35 cm After 20 weeks gestation, fundal height in centimeters should measure approximately the same as the number of weeks of gestation.





28. Which of the following laboratory tests is used in primary care to evaluate renal function?
A) Electrolyte panel
B) Creatinine
C) Alkaline phosphatase
D) Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) to creatinine ratio
 Answer B:  Creatinine Serum creatinine is measured to evaluate renal function. Creatinine is the end product of creatine metabolism. Creatinine clearance is not affected by fluid or dietary intake of meat.
29. All of the following are false statements regarding acute gastritis except:
A) Chronic intake of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause the disorder
B) Chronic lack of dietary fiber is the main cause of the disorder
C) The screening test for the disorder is the barium swallow test
D) The gold standard to evaluate the disorder is a colonoscopy
 Answer C:  The screening test for the disorder is the barium swallow test The gold standard for diagnosing gastric disease is biopsy of gastric and/or duodenal tissue by upper endoscopy. Chronic use of NSAIDs disrupts the production of prostaglandins, which decreases blood supply and then breaks down the protective layer of the mucosa, which leads to gastric disease.
30. Signs and symptoms of depression include all of the following except:
A) Anhedonia and changes in appetite
B) Decreased energy and irritability
C) Apathy and low self-esteem
D) Apraxia and fatigue
Answer D: Apraxia and fatigue Apraxia is a disorder of the nervous system in which the brain is affected, and the patient is unable to move the arms/legs when asked to do so. Common signs of depression include anhedonia (loss of interest in activities that the patient finds pleasurable), unintentional weight loss or gain, fatigue, change in appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia, feelings of guilt and worthlessness, and recurrent thoughts of suicide.



 31. Which of the following is an accurate description of eliciting for Murphy’s sign?
A) Upon deep inspiration by the patient, palpate firmly in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen below the costovertebral angle
B) Bend the patient’s hips and knees at 90 degrees, then passively rotate hip externally, then internally
C) Ask the patient to squat, then place the stethoscope on the apical area
D) Press into the abdomen deeply, then release it suddenly
Answer A:  Upon deep inspiration by the patient, palpate firmly in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen below the costovertebral angle Murphy’s sign is positive if pain occurs when performing RUQ palpation while the patient takes a deep inspiration, causing the patient to abruptly stop the deep breath due to pain. As the liver is palpated, it will descend and push up against the inflamed gallbladder and cause sharp pain (cholecystitis).
 32. A 28-year-old multipara who is at 32 weeks of gestation presents to your office complaining of a sudden onset of small amounts of bright red vaginal bleeding. She has had several episodes and appears anxious. On exam, her uterus is soft to palpation. Which of the following is most likely?
A) Placenta abruptio
B) Placenta previa
C) Acute cervicitis
D) Molar pregnancy (hydatidiform mole)
Answer B:  Placenta previa Placenta previa occurs when abnormal implantation of the placenta occurs. A common symptom of placenta previa is painless, bright red bleeding.
33. Epidemiologic studies show that Hashimoto’s disease occurs most commonly in:
A) Middle-aged to older women
B) Smokers
C) Obese individuals
D) Older men
Answer A:  Middle-aged to older women Hashimoto’s disease commonly occurs in middle-aged to older women.



34. A 48-year-old woman is told by a physician that she is starting menopause. All of the following are possible findings except:
A) Hot flashes
B) Irregular menstrual periods
C) Severe vaginal atrophic changes
D) Cyclic mood swings
 Answer C:  Severe vaginal atrophic changes as women reach menopause, changes that may occur include hot flashes, irregular menstrual periods, and cyclic mood swings. Vaginal changes, such as dryness and thinning, may also begin to occur.
35. A 63-year-old patient with a 10-year history of poorly controlled hypertension presents with a cluster of physical exam findings. Which of the following indicate target organ damage commonly seen in hypertensive patients?
A) Pedal edema, hepatomegaly, and enlarged kidneys
B) Hepatomegaly, AV nicking, bibasilar crackles
C) Renal infection, S3, neuromuscular abnormalities
D) Glaucoma, jugular vein atrophy, heart failure
 Answer B:  Hepatomegaly, AV nicking, bibasilar crackles With long-term, uncontrolled hypertension, organ damage may occur. Organs commonly affected include brain (stroke), eyes (retinopathy, AV nicking, bleeding, blindness), heart (heart disease, left ventricular hypertrophy, MI, and/or CHF), and kidneys (renal failure, proteinuria).
36. A 30-year-old primigravida is diagnosed with a possible threatened abortion. The result of the urine pregnancy test is positive. Which of the following statements is true regarding a threatened abortion?
A) Vaginal bleeding and cramping are present, but the cervix remains closed
B) Vaginal bleeding and cramping are present along with a dilated cervix
C) The fetus and placenta are all expelled
D) The products of conception and the placenta remain inside the uterus along
with a dilated cervix
Answer A:  Vaginal bleeding and cramping are present, but the cervix remains closed Threatened abortion is defined as vaginal bleeding and cramping without the presence of cervical dilation.

37. A 30-year-old female who is sexually active complains of a large amount of milk like vaginal discharge for several weeks. A microscopy slide reveals a large amount of squamous epithelial cells that have blurred margins. Very few white blood cells are seen. The vaginal pH is at 6.0. What is most likely?
A) Trichomonas infection
B) Bacterial vaginosis
C) Candidal infection
D) A normal finding
Answer B:  Bacterial vaginosis Bacterial vaginosis is a bacterial infection of the vagina. Signs and symptoms include copious off-white to gray discharge with foul odor without vaginal erythema or irritation. Wet prep will show positive for clue cells. When performing a wet prep, the “whiff test” will be positive for a strong “fi shy” odor when vaginal discharge is mixed with one drop of KOH.
38. The Pap smear result on a 20-year-old sexually active student who uses condoms inconsistently shows a large amount of inflammation. Which of the following is the best follow-up action?
A) The NP needs to do cervical cultures to verify the presence of gonorrhea
B) Prescribe metronidazole vaginal cream for the patient over the phone
C) Call the patient and tell her she needs a repeat Pap smear in 6 months
D) Advise the patient to use a Betadine douche at bedtime x 3 days
 Answer A:  The NP needs to do cervical cultures to verify the presence of gonorrhea Cultures should be taken at the time of the Pap smear, as the patient may not return for later diagnostic testing.
39. While performing a Pap smear on a postmenopausal patient, several areas of fl at white skin lesions that are irregularly shaped are found on the patient’s labia. The patient reports that the lesions are extremely itchy and have been present for several years without much change. Which condition is best described?
A) Chronic scabies infection
B) Lichen sclerosus
C) Chronic candidal vaginitis
D) A physiologic variant found in some older women
 Answer B:  Lichen sclerosus Lichen sclerosus is a disease of the skin, in which white spots appear on the skin and change over time. It is most commonly seen in the genital and rectal areas but can appear in other areas. The spots are usually shiny and smooth and can eventually spread into patches. The skin appears thin and crinkled. Then the skin tears easily, and bright red or purple bruises are common. Sometimes, the skin becomes scarred. If the disease is a mild case, there may be no symptoms.
40. The heart sound S2 is caused by:
A) Closure of the atrioventricular valves
B) Closure of the semilunar valves
C) Opening of the atrioventricular valves
D) Opening of the semilunar valves
 Answer B:  Closure of the semilunar valves The heart sound S2 is caused by closure of the semilunar valves.
41. A pelvic exam on a woman who is 12 weeks pregnant would reveal that her uterus is located at which of the following areas?
A) Between the umbilicus and the suprapubic bone
B) Just rising above the suprapubic bone
C) Between the suprapubic bone and the xiphoid process
D) Between the umbilicus and the xiphoid process
Answer B:  Just rising above the suprapubic bone At 12 weeks gestation, the uterus measures approximately the size of a grapefruit, which would be felt just above the suprapubic bone on bimanual exam.
42. All of the following are covered under Medicare Part B except:
A) Persons age 65 years or older
B) Durable medical equipment
C) Mammograms annually starting at age 50
D) Anesthesiologist’s services
 Answer D:  Anesthesiologist’s services Medicare Part B covers: 1) outpatient physician visits, labs, x-rays; 2) durable medical equipment; 3) mammograms/colonoscopy after age 50 years annually; 4) rehabilitation. Anesthesiologist’s services are covered by Medicare Part A.



43. All of the following patients are at higher risk for suicide except:
A) A 66-year-old White male whose wife of 40 years recently died
B) A high school student with a history of bipolar disorder
C) A depressed 45-year-old female with family history of suicide
D) A 17-year-old teen who has only 1 close friend in school
 Answer D:  A 17-year-old teen who has only one close friend in school Risk factors for suicide include: 1) elderly white males (especially after the death of a spouse); 2) past history of suicide; 3) family history of suicide; 4) plans for use of a lethal weapon such as a gun or knife; 5) female gender has a higher attempt rate, but males have a higher success rate; 6) personal history of bipolar disorder or depression.
44. A 70-year-old male patient complains of a bright red spot in his left eye for 2 days. He denies eye pain, visual changes, or headaches. He has a new onset of cough from a recent viral upper respiratory infection. The only medicine he is on is Bayer aspirin 1 tablet a day. Which of the following is most likely?
A) Corneal abrasion
B) Acute bacterial conjunctivitis
C) Acute uveitis
D) Subconjunctival hemorrhage
 Answer D:  Subconjunctival hemorrhage Subconjunctival hemorrhage is a benign disorder that occurs from an increase in intraocular pressure that may be caused by coughing, vomiting, forceful exertion in labor during childbirth, straining while having a bowel movement, weightlifting, or lifting a heavy object.
45. Which of the following is appropriate follow-up for this 70-year-old patient?
A) Referral to an optometrist
B) Referral to an ophthalmologist
C) Advise the patient that it is a benign condition and will resolve spontaneously
D) Prescribe an ophthalmic antibiotic solution
Answer C: Advise the patient that it is a benign condition and will resolve spontaneously A subconjunctival hemorrhage is a benign disorder that resolves without any treatment.


 46. Jason, an 8-year-old with type 1 diabetes, is being seen for a 3-day history of frequency and nocturia. He denies flank pain and is afebrile. The urinalysis result is negative for blood and nitrites but is positive for a large amount of leukocytes and ketones. He has a trace amount of protein. Which of the following is the best test to order initially?
A) Urine for culture and sensitivity
B) 24-hour urine for protein and creatinine clearance
C) 24-hour urine for microalbumin
D) An intravenous pyelogram
Answer A: Urine for culture and sensitivity An 8-year-old male patient with the diagnosis of diabetes has a high risk of urinary tract infections. A large amout of leukocytes in the urinalysis is abnormal and he has been having symptoms of frequency and nocturia for the past 3 days. The urine culture would be ordered because he has a high risk of infection. The urine culture and sensitivity (C&S) is the best evaluation for diagnosing a urinary tract infection.
47. All of the following are not recommended for the outpatient treatment of mild preeclampsia except:
A) Severe sodium restriction
B) Restrict fluid intake to less than 1 liter per 24 hours
C) Aldomet (methyldopa) 250 mg PO (orally) BID
D) Bed rest on the left side with bathroom privileges
 Answer D:  Bed rest on the left side with bathroom privileges Outpatient treatment for mild preeclampsia includes bed rest on the left lateral side with bathroom privileges.
48. The best test for diagnosing congenital glaucoma is which of the following?
A) Fluorescein staining
B) Tonometry
C) Snellen vision exam
D) The refractive index
Answer B:  Tonometry A tonometer is used to measure the intraocular pressure (IOP) of
the eye to screen for glaucoma. Normal range IOP is 10–22 mm Hg.


49. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is caused by the bite of the:
A) Mosquito
B) Tick
C) Insect
D) Flea
 Answer B:  Tick Rocky Mountain spotted fever is caused by a tick bite from a tick that was infected with the parasite Rickettsia rickettsii. The mortality rate is 1%–7% if left untreated.
50. All of the following are false statements about atopic dermatitis except:
A) Contact with cold objects may exacerbate the condition
B) It does not have a linear distribution
C) It is associated with bullae
D) The lesions have vesicles that are full of serous exudate
Answer B:  It does not have a linear distribution Atopic dermatitis is a skin condition in which the lesions occur in a linear fashion. They may have many different stages, including erythematous papules and vesicles, with weeping, drainage, and/or crusting. Lesions are commonly found on the scalp, face, forearms, wrists, elbows, and backs of the knees. Commonly pruritic. Also known as eczema.
